there are two media watch organizations
in the United States one is called flame
and the other is camera and they focus
on mainstream media coverage of Israel
and they have been very critical of
mainstream media coverage particularly
National Public Radio News reporting for
example contending that it's very biased
and anti-israel to what extent are the
media talk more about media connivance
with the State Department I mean how
does that work does the Assistant
Secretary of State for Middle East
affairs call up the you know Abe
Rosenthal at the New York Times and say
Abe we need an editorial supporting
Israel in our policy how does it work
usually on the other side I think it's
so anyway in any case what they do is
they accept sourcing from the US
government and the Israeli government
they're very generous not critically and
they don't they don't do much in the way
of sourcing from alternative sources
ended the commentator here partner
but I think that the whole thing is
greatly affected by the by pressure
groups Israeli supporters of Israel
they're very well organized in
Philadelphia one Spectre was running
against this woman in the Senate
election a lot of money they local
supporters of Israel what with all our
perspective a continuous streams of
letters paper they visited the
Philadelphia Inquirer the pressure was
intense there the local head of the
World Zionist are the Zionist
Organization of America I am was
informed by an inquiry insider
communicated with the paper every day by
a fact commenting on and always
criticizing them for being anti-israel
every single day this man would write
would affect criticisms and he teeth he
terrorized but he had many lies they
really carried out a policy that that
got the deeper in line the paper hired
or had a reporter reporting on the
specter campaign who I thought was
incredibly biased that they respect
recently he never reported for me on the
AIPAC campaign AIPAC supportive campaign
the inspectors at least $120,000 and
they got lined up a lot of PACs to give
him money
and there was on there all kinds of
mailing campaigns put out by the specter
campaign claiming that yaeko was
virtually an anti-semite and trying to
raise money on this page but this these
that all these campaigns were extremely
powerful but then in the news coverage
was was very seriously bias Victor his
his role the Anita Hill hearings and
especially getting Clarence Thomas on
the Supreme Court his support of capital
punishment and he's done a lot of pretty
bad things
hardly discussed at all they weren't
raised by the the local media and the
they did look huge attention on the
allegation that this woman said Kennedy
ankle and her Presbyterian Church wasn't
anti-semitic because they had had
debates on on the Middle East where
state anti-israel statements had been
made converted into her anti-semitism or
her characters anti-semitism it was
amazing but the prayer the local big
paper really came in this is David Barr
saw me on and I'm talking to author and
media critic Edward Herrmann well ed
from I mean what you're saying it sounds
like that you object to this campaign
because the bias was is not one that you
support continuing bullying quality with
all kinds of threats attached to it
and its result was very biased reporting
oh I'm all for people writing letters
and doing their thing
but this this was one of such intensity
and bullying character and it was it was
really twisting arms and as a result was
pernicious I mean it'll mean the result
in that spectre-1 I mean the result that
the news coverage was was really bad it
was really it was not impartial it was
not really quality news that addressed
the issues well let me ask you about
something
some years ago I was interviewing the
director of the anti-defamation league
in Denver and I asked him if by
definition criticism of the State of
Israel was anti-semitic and his response
was that since Israel is the state of
the Jewish people that criticism of
Israel is anti-semitic how do you
respond to that
have you any really believe feel and act
on but I don't know if you saw that
yesterday's New York Times where
Thomas Friedman actually mentions that
there's been a change in attitude along
that line in that when the liquid
government was in the view of Port
Horace and others was that you can but
now that the Rabine government is in an
is engaging in certain accommodations or
are not very great but but it's it's
talking it's doing they be doing
business with the Palestinians in TLO
the position of Port Orange is that we
should criticize Israel so it appears
that for them further on the this
powerful right-wing faction criticism of
Israel is okay and when the Israeli
government is not fitting their
particular version of how to be behaving
which is a very hard line but getting
back to your point on anti-semitism I
think that then I think there was a book
I believe by the Perlmutter called the
new anti-semitism came out in the early
eighties and I haven't read that for a
long time but I remember that that book
in fact made things anti-semitism that
would be hurtful to Israel across the
board if you were against the military
budget it seemed to me that they were
suggesting that since that might hurt
Israel that could be classified as
anti-semitic so I think there has been
sort of this implicit definitely
definition of anti-semitism to be not
hating Jews but doing something damaging
to Israel I think that has become very
important but it's not usually openly
admitted who's much discussion that's a
terrible position David I mean thank you
I think it's even terrible for Israelis
or
we're just Israel to take the position
that you can't criticize Israel I think
that it's damaging to Israel's welfare
in Israel should be something capable of
being subjected to criticism at home and
abroad I think this in fact is one of
the real problems of the world know that
because of the kind of attitude that
Israel can't be criticized and the
pressures that our papers and
politicians Israel has had too much of a
free hand there's much talk of course in
the media about UN Security Council
resolutions vis a vie Iraq the UN
Security Council has also passed many
resolutions dealing with Israel Turkey
Indonesia the United States itself what
has been the level of compliance more
years in the B's of the United States or
other Western powers like your rock find
that in for strenuous
since in the American media that there's
any or the rules being everybody well a
high UN official earlier this week said
that quote Iraq cannot pick and choose
how it implements UN resolutions unquote
[Music]
doublespeak
dictionary you define self-defense as
our and our closest allies right to
attack anybody at discretion for any
reason satisfactory to ourselves well in
that late June bombing of Baghdad the
missile attack President Clinton
announced quote the Iraqi attack against
President Bush was an attack against our
country and against all Americans now I
may have missed something here but I
wasn't aware of an Iraqi attack against
President Bush there is an alleged plot
which was never consummated it sounds
like you don't have much faith in the
Kuwaiti Justice too much faith in the
Kuwaiti justice system but but the
amazing thing
the Clinton administration of course
destroyed the whatever integrity that
trial head by bombing and therefore
saying these people weren't guilty so I
mean I don't think anybody's commented
on that fact by vomiting when a trial
was in process you destroy the integrity
of the trial then of course the trial
wasn't finished and then though the the
facts were not all in but as you say a
bombing did not occur I mean an
assassination did not occur but of
course article 51 doesn't talk about it
talks about self-defense and all the
interpretations the international law is
talking about the self-defense in the
sense somebody is attacking you and you
don't have time to go to the UN to get
the UN to do something about so you must
resist the attack which is overwhelming
in the media which obviously doesn't
apply at all to that case so no to hold
the legal interpretation and yesterday's
New York Times had an editorial Saddam
Hussein is at it again
and a lead front front-page story once
again US and allies tried diplomacy on
back that this is written by Thomas
Friedman essentially saying that the US
and its allies are making great efforts
to bring Saddam Hussein's regime into
compliance with because they're hoping
the whole Iraqi people
children have died boycott process and
so in a very important sense
this is hostage-taking or the national
scale what do you think of that argument
it sounds plausible the whole population
is hostage we're insisting on starving
people well maybe maybe it's really
wholesale parents above a truly unique
well maybe the US and the UN should
consider bombing Ankara or Jakarta for
their violation of UN Security Council
resolutions or Washington well there is
there is a plan of float I understand
from highly placed sources that the
Cuban Air Force is soon to launch an
attack on Washington because it has
documental evidence that the United
States not just planned assassination
attacks on Fidel Castro but actually
implemented them in the early 90s during
operation somewhere
and the logic business that you're
suggesting that Castro our logic would
be perfectly justified in bubbling water
turn your attention if you will to
Somalia where you have extraordinary
events such as UN peacekeepers kill
Somalis u.s. helicopter gunships attack
Somali warlords in strongholds what's
going on in Somalia and of course there
are always collateral getting mad
striking back well it seems that the
woggs don't know their place they don't
know their place and when they strike
back my god do they think they are what
could you do they think they're
operating it actually killed Americans I
mean we brought over five hundred
thousand people to bomb the hell out of
the country and
actually hit the or decision to shoot
back at our boys imagine them doing this
and so really we have a just flawless
from from way back
incredible self-righteousness
we have a right to be anywhere do
anything but no matter what well
speaking of indochina the historian
Marilyn
Young has said that the u.s. attack on
Indochina is a struggle against quote
willed historical amnesia I'd like you
to talk about the the endless reports to
revelations of new sightings and new
proof and new documents of US troops
being held prisoner in Vietnam I mean
the latest case just a couple of days
ago I mean this this never ends a
senator from New Hampshire Bob Smith
just went to Vietnam and he announced
that he's convinced Americans are still
being held captive in that country what
there were you and in fact we all the
Vietnamese reparations we should be
talking about reparations and war crimes
trials should have been held involving
significant numbers of American leaders
yeah it's interesting you should say
that because you'll recall that when
Robert McNamara was shown the Pentagon
Papers he said they could hang people
for what's in here justified we're
talking about
for Bosnia and Iraq also and for Iraq as
well for a rock well you you carefully
monitor the media how many reports have
you seen on Vietnamese lotion or
Cambodians missing in action
I recall general Westmoreland making
that infamous statement about the
oriental doesn't value life the way a
westerner does
what's let's turn our attention in a few
minutes we have remaining to public
electronic media in the United States a
national public radio and PBS now you
have a couple of public radio stations
in your hometown Philadelphia WHYY and
WX PN about them first was proposed
to their utter embarrassment and it
wouldn't hurt them because they had
moved away from their original purposes
of serving the Doherty audiences alike
and they had sort of mainstream and
therefore the new station wouldn't be
competing very much with them and I
think that's not really telling you know
but of course part of the reason they
have abandoned their original purposes
if they've been under huge financial
pressure the regulars and even before
that the Conservatives have always hated
it poses a threat of independent
something independent of the commercial
mix and commercial stations it being
much more conservative than the
station's even though the national
stations and PBS stations are on the
payroll so avoid a hurry it's
interesting that here that state the
state control should be being exercised
over the PBS National Public Radio and
the commercial stations are free of the
government and yet during the Vietnam
War the PBS airing this had abused so
it's a very telling insight into the
meaning of commercial processes how they
affect the media but because the
conservators hated PBS there's no public
radio for these reasons they tried it
once tried to defund them keep funding
love keep them honest closed string and
then the Reagan era and they did even
more and they've also tried to push them
into reliance on commercial
advertisers so-called underwriting yeah
underwriting to make to help make them
subject to the same kind of pressures
and that all worked
although I think PBS
so marginally better maybe than the
commercial and I think they could be
revived I think you should be on the
progressive agenda to get the back to
their previous state or better but there
was a deliberate effort made to make the
more conservative in Philadelphia WHYY
is very mainstream culture oriented
station that I'm too much in the way of
critical stuff XP is a station that the
University of Pennsylvania and it
brought into the commercial business but
the process that it hired a guy some
years ago who whose aim has been to
create its circulation its audience
share what its audience share its
audience share yeah so that wasn't the
message it wasn't that he was devoted to
but he was devoted to getting its market
share and I'm afraid we're running out
of time it's I'd like to thank you very
very much for joining us
my guest has been Edward Herrmann
talking to us from his home in
Pennsylvania I'm David Barr Samuel thank
you for listening